Okay, metrics, let's do an exercise.
So, for each of the following,
identify what metrics you would
track as part of that project.
So just give me a list.
I try and put at least one or two.
Generally, not more than like four or
five for a project,
otherwise you're like kind of spidering
off into some interesting things.
But just like top level things,
here's ways that we can measure
that this is getting engaged with,
that this is worth supporting, that this
is something that we wanna keep doing, or
is this something that we wanna roll
back and not do anymore, right?
Those are the metrics that
I generally try and seek.
So as part of those checked metrics,
what company wide or
organizational wide metrics would you
affect for those all up companies?
Okay, so building a better
designed Add to Cart process for
Nike where recommends related products.
So I'm sure many of you've seen,
you add this thing to your cart and
then it recommends this other thing,
right?
That's kinda the thing
I'm getting at there.
A product to improve music
recommendations by Spotify.
When I say improve, I mostly mean
that I listen to this one song,
the song ends, and then you know
how it keeps playing another song
if you run out of things to listen to.
Making that recommendation more closely
match what we think the user actually
wants to listen to.
That's what I mean by that.
Okay, detecting stored credit cards
expiring and preemptively asking users for
a new one for Delta Airlines.
This is definitely not something
that just happened to me [LAUGH].
Adding a share to Facebook button for
completing a bike ride on Strava if you're
not familiar with Strava,
it's like an exercise tracker, right?
So you can track your run or track
your bike ride or something like that.
They used to be our neighbors when
I worked at Reddit, fun fact.
And adding the ability to
sign into a PlayStation,
any PlayStation,
by with just a QR code on your phone.
So, let's go through these one by one and
see what you all thought about this.
Certainly, one of the things that I
would track as an e-commerce website,
having worked on e-commerce
websites is average order size.
Generally you wanna sell more items,
right?
And so that would be one that I
would expect this a ladder up to and
then just revenue in general, right?
As part of it,
you would track how successful this was,
are people adding it and
I would also check abandon rate, right?
Because whenever you add extra steps
to a checkout process people abandon,
it's just always how it works, right?
And so
if you're having more cart abandonment and
too much cart abandonment, then you
would want to abandon this project.
But if you're raising your average order
size or average amount of items and just
seeing successfully, we recommended this,
they added this, you might wanna keep it.
You can certainly check the customer
satisfaction of this as well.
How annoying am I when I asked you,
do you wanna add this also to your cart?
I hate when Uber Eats does it, right?
It's like, please take that away from me.
Let me have some sort of
thing to take that off.
The day it does definitely lower
my satisfaction with Uber Eats.
Yeah, and I said revenue.
You might be recommending things
that are more profitable to you.
I don't really like that.
I think I'd rather recommend to someone
what I actually think that they want.
In general on the person says,
I want to match my user's intent.
My user wants this, I want to try and
give it to them rather than trying to say,
hey, your intent is this,
but my intent is this.
I try and put theirs above mine.
I'm sure there are people out there
that would disagree with that,
but they can be wrong, that's fine.
A product to improve music
recommendations by Spotify.
I'm sure one of their top level
metrics is engagement, right?
How long are people listening to music?
So that's what I would expect
them to be tracking with this is
if they're listening to a song and
then it just let it keep playing.
Are they adding more time or are they
just been listening to something else?.
Anyway, I'd be tracking that.
I probably be tracking.
I'm sure they have some metric around like
A time where they suspect someone is
not actually there listening to it.
If I left my car playing it for
some reason and left and
no one's listening to it, I probably
wouldn't be trying to drive those up.
I don't know how you would track that,
but if you were Spotify,
you could probably try and
figure that out.
Netflix actually worked very hard
to figure out that sort of thing.
Because if they're
listening to those music,
Spotify is paying royalties on it, right?
So you don't wanna drive
things up unnecessarily.
User retention, right?
Actually a big reason why I stick with
Spotify over Apple Music personally is
that Spotify gives me much
better recommendations and
I end up finding out about level a lot
of music through Spotify recommendations
because they're just better
at it in my opinion.
So retention would be one
that I would look at on that.
And I think a strong metric that you could
look at to say that we're doing betters.
They're playing this song,
we recommend this song, and
then if they follow some path based
off of that song, that they went and
listened to another artist buy it,
another song that was in a similar vein.
Whatever way we can attribute it is,
we showed them this, and
we got some measure from them
that they liked it, right?
That would probably be
my project metric of,
I'm looking to see if people like
what I'm recommending to them.
Because that will correlate as
well to their satisfaction, right?
Okay, detecting store credit cards.
I think my top level metrics I'd be
looking for here is just success,
successful checkouts, that would be one
that Delta would track as a whole company.
And then one that I would be looking for
for the project is successfully charged
stored credit cards that came from
previously expired ones, right?
I book so many flights, but
every time I go to Delta,
I just expect them to have the right
credit card and it's gonna work that time.
And so I got really frustrated.
Why is this not working?
He's it has an old credit card.
So that was my rant on that.
But yeah, revenue lifetime value
of a customer that's another one
that you'd probably look at as well.
And then maybe some sort of
abandonment around like we
asked you to open the email and
then do nothing about it,
probably means we're annoying you but
who knows?
Share to Facebook button for
Strava, I'd be looking for
referrals and
specifically social referrals.
So how many people are tracking
back to something like this?
If they're a Strava user,
I'd probably be looking for high fives.
Or you can encourage your users, or
comment or something like that to say,
hey, we're driving social
engagement on the platform,
which makes the platform more sticky,
right?
So that would be one if they're
signed in and if they're signed out,
how many sign-ups are we getting
from these referrals to Facebook?
Maybe some impressions.
I mean,
I guess impressions are useful as well, so
I'd probably be really interested in
those because I imagine I've told you,
some of you today probably found out
about Strava for the first time, right?
So they're not a totally ubiquitous brand.
So adding a share button to Facebook from
Strava, the things that I'd probably
be most interested in this would
be social referral traffic, right?
People that are actually clicking on it,
just to prove that we're not
just spamming Facebook, right?
I'd also be looking at how many people are
actually clicking the share to Facebook
button, right?
Cuz if no one's clicking it,
then what's the point of that feature?
Maintaining social integrations is
a pain in the butt as someone that's
had to do it.
If you don't have to, you don't want to.
So that would be one.
I would be looking for
people that are referred back to,
are they signing up if they're logged out?
Are they interacting in some other
way if they've signed in, so
some sort of like high fives or
commenting.
That would be good just for
social engagement which makes
our platform more sticky.
And then impressions are also very
interesting as well because that drives
brand awareness.
Not everyone is aware of what Strava is as
a brand, so driving people to the site is
gonna drive awareness and eventually
that might lead to them signing up.
Okay, and last one,
ability to sign into a PlayStation.
I would just be looking for
time to sign in, right?
Cuz I imagine a lot of people
don't wanna put their username and
password in with their controller.
So successful signings would be good and
then time to sign in so you can correlate,
we have more signings, and
people are successfully doing it and
spending less time doing it because it's
not one of the more fun parts about it.
If I was the PM of that, the other thing I
might be more interested in is driving as
like a bet that I go to my friend's house,
my friend has FIFA and
we're gonna play FIFA together.
Typically I would just
pick up a controller and
not sign in because I don't wanna be
bothered with that whole sign-in process.
But if you made it really easy for
me to just scan a QR code,
I'd be much more apt as like, all right,
let me bring all of my stats over with me.
And then let's make this personal that we
can track our record against each other,
right?
And so I would scan that with
the hypothesis as the product managers,
having data on where people
are traveling is probably useful and
knowing who's playing couch co-op
against each other would be useful.
And you can end up with some really
interesting recommendations like, hey,
we saw you play PlayStation
with this friend.
Do you know that you
two might like playing?
I don't know FIFA street together or
something like that.
And so you get this new vector of useful
data to talk to your customers about where
you can offer them useful recommendations.
I'm always looking for those kind of
synergistic overlaps between me and
my customers.
I want you to do this.
You also wanna do
something that's similar.
Let's find the Venn diagram of what's
good for you and what's good for
my company, right?
Those are the things I get to feel really
awesome about the job I'm doing as
opposed to, how can I trick you
into doing things that are good for
the company that's not
super detrimental to you.
I don't like those kinds of overlaps.
>> What we've discussed here is
essentially a blend of data that I can
collect on people who are using my
platform or service that they may or
may not be aware of and
then information that they can provide me.
Is there a way you think
about the balance or
which type of information should go after?
And there's plenty of these ethically
dubious circumstances where a little
bit of privacy invasion which would
probably be a great benefit to users but
there's other concerns over
those data being collected.
>> Yeah, I mean,
it's something I think a lot about.
Let's start with just
the absolute base level,
you got to comply with probably with GDPR,
right?
Your users have to be able to know
what's being collected on them, and
they need to be able to be forgotten,
right?
That's just like the baseline
legal aspect of it.
My personal philosophy on this is, one,
data is a liability a lot of the time.
So what you know about a data can also
be exfiltrated about that data, and
so you wanna be cautious to keep things
that are directly pertinent to things
that you intend to use, right?
So don't collect.
Nike doesn't need to know my age,
for example, when I'm buying shoes.
So they should not collect my age, right?
Things of that nature where don't
collect data that you don't need for
some particular reason.
I don't know,
maybe Nike does need my age, but
hopefully you're drawing
the conclusion there of like,
maybe McDonald's doesn't need to know
my age when I order a cheeseburger.
So that's number one.
Number two,
I generally try to keep to informed
consent that you know that you
are giving me this data and
at the very least of like
strongly implicit consent, right?
So if I told you it's like, hey,
I took this data that you wouldn't
be particularly surprised by that.
Let me try to give you
two examples of this.
So using that PlayStation 1, where you
log in with a QR code on your friend's
PlayStation, you are probably unsurprised
that PlayStation correlate is like two
PlayStation accounts played together,
right?
That is not gonna be super surprising and
I was like, hey, we think that you two
might know each other if you are on the
same couch playing the same PlayStation.
Now you might not have said, I'm okay with
you gathering that data, but you're not
particularly surprised, it's data you
actively gave by scanning the QR code.
I feel okay about that.
I think it's okay to
gather that sort of data.
Now how would you feel about, you went and
played on that PlayStation and
then later a different friend when played
on the same PlayStation without you there
and all sudden.
I can still correlate, you were there and
this different person was
there at a different time.
That feels a little ethically dubious to
me to say, we're gonna correlate that.
We think that you also probably
know each other just based on that
fact alone, right?
Maybe it's a bit less so
of like, you played with this person and
I played with that person.
We can probably correlate that there
might be some sorta social graph there.
Just like LinkedIn recommends to use, hey,
you probably know these people because you
were there at the same time and
you have all the same connections.
That feels okay to me as well.
Let me draw one too that I
found particularly disturbing.
I'm a Gmail user,
like probably most of you.
And I found a screen within Gmail, is like
here's everything you've ever bought.
And I was like whoa, I did not feel okay
with you reading all of my emails and
pulling out all of
the things that I've bought.
And then I found out they'll show you,
here's all the ads we recommended to based
on the things that are in your inbox.
And I was like,
I'm very okay with you not or
not okay with you providing that
email to a third party, right?
Or even to your ad server, right?
Now, I posted it on Twitter and obviously
got very much both sides of why you're
using a free product, you are the product
haha, I hate that, by the way.
Never told me that because
then I won't be your friend.
Yes, I know that free products or
whatever.
But I still think it's on the provider
of the service to have informed consent
tonight.
That was a thing that when
I found out about it,
I was very surprised by it and
I would not have consented to that, right?
So that's where I draw that line of, don't
gather that data if that user would have
been surprised that you
have gathered that data.
Another example is, if you go to Nike and
you buy shin guards for soccer,
It's probably okay that Nike buckets
me into a soccer mailing list,
assuming that I gave permission
to be on a mailing list.
It makes sense that you buy soccer gear,
you probably wanna know
about soccer things.
That kind of derivative based on
information, or actually, sorry,
I'm probably going too long on this,
but last example here.
When I was at Reddit, the way that
we advertised to you on Reddit is,
what subreddits you have subscribed to,
right?
So if you subscribe to the soccer
subreddit, you're gonna see soccer ads.
That felt really okay to me because you
have given Reddit that information and
we're not pulling that from third
parties or anything like that.
We're just using it based on what
information you have chosen to give us.
So a lot of ethics tied up in this.
A lot of law tied up in this.
I'm going to invite you to try and
act both legally and ethically.
It's a hard problem.